Mining.md, before:

# Mining Guide

## General Information
Welcome to Zilliqa testnet-v3, code-named _Mao Shan Wang_. We are inviting all miners to test out the process of joining as a public node on _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. We hope this exercise will familiarise everyone with the workflow and also help to find out potential bugs before the mainnet launch by end January 2019. We also encourage all community developers to join the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet in order to better understand the architecture of the Zilliqa network.

- [Recommended hardware requirements](#hardware-requirement-for-mao-shan-wang-testnet)
- [Steps for mining with docker](#steps-for-mining-with-docker-for-cpu-or-nvidia-gpus-only)
- [Steps for mining natively](#steps-for-mining-natively)

### Testnet Difficulty
The bootstrapped minimum difficulty level is set at `3` for the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. This difficulty level is dynamic and adjusts according to number of nodes that are competing to join the Zilliqa network.

>**NOTE:** Difficulty level is the log2(Difficulty).

### Testnet Epoch Architecture
![Zilliqa Epoch Architecture](https://i.ibb.co/hgY1j3r/Screenshot-2018-11-28-16-29-39.png)

At the start of each DS Epoch, all candidates will run the Proof-of-Work (Ethash algorithm) process for a `300` seconds window in order to compete to join the Zilliqa network.

Then, nodes that fulfilled the `DS_POW_DIFFICULTY` parameter will be able to join as DS nodes. While, nodes that fulfilled the `POW_DIFFICULTY` parameter will join as shard nodes.

There are a total of `100` TX epochs (each ~1 min) within each DS Epoch (~1.5 hrs). The 100th TX epoch is known as the **Vacuous epoch**.
> The illustration above depicts the Zilliqa mainnet epoch architecture. For _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet, we are including 100 TX blocks in each DS epoch instead for testing purposes.

A vacuous epoch handles the coinbase transactions (reward mechanism), upgrade mechanism (as there are no forks in pBFT), and persistent state storage (writing to nodes’ DB instead of just storing in just the memory). During a vacuous epoch, the network does not process any regular transactions.

### Reward Mechanism
In the Zilliqa network, rewards are based on the amount of signatures done by a node during a DS epoch. Signatures that are submitted by both shard and DS nodes are rewarded equally. The rewards are consolidated for a DS epoch and given out during the vacuous epoch.

Say for example, if there are a total of `1,200` nodes in the Zilliqa network and the `COINBASE_REWARD` is set at `10,000,000` ZILs per DS Epoch, the reward distributed per signature will be:

`10,000,000 / (1,200 * 2/3 [Successful signers] * 99 [TX blocks]) = 126.262626262626263 ZILs per signature`

## Hardware requirement for _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet
Currently, mining only works with Ubuntu 16.04 OS. Please follow the steps [HERE](https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/) if you wish to dual boot Windows and Ubuntu 16.04.

We currently support both AMD (with OpenCL) and Nvidia (with CUDA) GPUs.

The recommended requirements for Zilliqa mining nodes are:
* x64 Linux operating system such as Ubuntu 16.04.5
* Intel i5 processor or later
* 8GB DRR3 RAM or higher
* **(Optional)** Any GPU cards with at least 20 Mh/s [e.g 1 x GTX 1060, 3GB dedicated RAM]


### For OpenCL

If you wish to use OpenCL supported GPU for PoW, please run `sudo apt install ocl-icd-opencl-dev` to install the OpenCL developer package.

### For CUDA

If you wish to use CUDA supported GPU for PoW, please download and install CUDA package from [NVIDIA official webpage](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads). You may need to reboot your PC for the installation to take effect. 

### For Multiple GPUs

If you have multiple OpenCL or CUDA GPUs, they can work concurrently. Please edit the `GPU_TO_USE` parameter in the _**constants.xml**_ file located in your "join" folder to select amount of the GPUs that you would wish to use. 

The index start from `0` and you can select one or more multiple GPUs. For example, `0` for 1 GPU, `0, 1, 2` or `0, 2, 4` for 3 GPUs. Do make sure the largest index corresponds to the number of GPUs you have physically in your mining rig.

## Steps for mining with docker (For CPU or Nvidia GPUs only)
1. Install Ubuntu 16.04.5 OS by following instructions here: http://releases.ubuntu.com/xenial/.
***

2. Install Docker CE for Ubuntu by following instructions here: https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/.
***

3. **(Optional)** Install Nvidia CUDA drivers as mentioned above [HERE](#for-cuda). You can skip this step if you are mining with CPU.
***

4. Make a new directory in your Desktop and change directory to it:
    ```
    cd ~/Desktop && mkdir join && cd join
    ```
***

5. Get the docker image in your command prompt:
    ```
    wget https://testnet-join.zilliqa.com/configuration.tar.gz
    tar zxvf configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

6. Enable UPnP **OR** do single port forwarding if you are in NAT environment using **Option 1a** or **Option 1b**. Else, find out your current public IP address using **Option 2** if you already have an exposed public IP address:

    > **NOTE:** If you are using a home router, you are most probably in a NAT environment and can enable UPnP. However, if UPnP does not work, you can do port forwarding instead.

    * **(Option 1a)** Enable UPnP mode on your home router. Please Google your home router setting, an example can be found [HERE](https://routerguide.net/how-to-enable-upnp-for-rt-ac66u/). You can check if you have enabled it UPnP by installing the tool below:
       ```
       sudo apt-get install miniupnpc
       ```
       Then type this in the command line:
       ```
       upnpc -s
       ```
       You will get a message "List of UPNP devices found on the network :" **OR** "No IGD UPnP Device found on the network !". The former means UPnP mode has been enabled successfully, while the latter means UPnP mode has an issue. If you belong to the latter case, please see  Option 2 below.

    * **(Option 1b)** Single port forwarding your local machine IP in the router menu. You can port forward to `30303` for external port (port range), `30303` for internal port (local port) for `BOTH` TCP/UDP protocol in your router menu, an example can be found [HERE](https://www.linksys.com/us/support-article?articleNum=136711). You can then find out your router IP address using your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```

    * **(Option 2)** Find your public IP address directly if you already have a public IP address in your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```
***

7. Run the shell script in your command prompt to launch your docker image.
    * **(Option 1)** For CPU mining:
       ```
       ./launch_docker.sh
       ```
    * **(Option 2)** For Nvidia GPUs mining: We will be adding support using [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) for Nvidia GPUs shortly. Please stay tuned.

       > **NOTE:** If you wish to run multiple Nvidia GPUs concurrently, you will need to modify your _**constants.xml**_ file following instructions as found above [HERE](#for-multiple-gpus).

       > **NOTE:** Unfortunately, there is no direct support for this docker build for AMD GPUs. We recommend you to build Zilliqa natively instead of using docker by following instructions below [HERE](#steps-for-mining-natively).
***

8. You will then be prompted to enter some information as shown below:
    * `Assign a name to your container (default: zilliqa):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_

    * `Enter your IP address ('NAT' or *.*.*.*):` _[Key in **NAT** OR your public IP address as found in step 6]_

    * `Enter your listening port (default: 30303):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_

***

9. You are now a miner in _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. You can monitor your progress using:
    ```
    tail -f zilliqa-00001-log.txt
    ``` 
    You will be notified in the logs when you become a shard/DS node in the network, if you managed to win the PoW process at the start of the DS epoch.
***

10. To check your locally generated public and private key pairs, you can enter this in your command prompt:
    ```
    less mykey.txt
    ```
    The first hex string is your **public key**, and the second hex string is your **private key**.

    >**NOTE:** The key pair is generated locally on your disk. Do remember to keep your private key somewhere safe!


## Steps for mining natively

1. Make a new directory for Zilliqa:
    ```
    cd ~/Desktop && mkdir Zilliqa
    ```
***

2. Make a new directory for Scilla:
    ```
    mkdir Scilla
    ```
***

3. Make a new directory for join:
    ```
    mkdir join
    ```
***

4. Clone the Scilla repository and change directory to it:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Zilliqa/Scilla.git Scilla && cd Scilla
    ```
***

5. Find out your current directory path and write it down:
    ```
    pwd
    ```
***

6. Download the Scilla binary dependencies for Ubuntu following instructions [HERE](https://github.com/Zilliqa/scilla/blob/master/INSTALL.md#ubuntu). Then, build the Scilla binary:
    ```
    make clean; make
    ```
***

7. Clone the Zilliqa repository and change directory to it:
    ```
    cd .. && git clone https://github.com/Zilliqa/Zilliqa.git Zilliqa && cd Zilliqa && git checkout 6151a87
    ```
***

8. Find out your current directory path again and write it down:
    ```
    pwd
    ```
***

9. Download the Zilliqa dependencies and build Zilliqa.


    * Downloading the dependencies:
       ```
       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install git libboost-system-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libboost-test-dev \
       libssl-dev libleveldb-dev libjsoncpp-dev libsnappy-dev cmake libmicrohttpd-dev \
       libjsonrpccpp-dev build-essential pkg-config libevent-dev libminiupnpc-dev \
       libprotobuf-dev protobuf-compiler libcurl4-openssl-dev
       ```
    * Build Zilliqa
       ```
       ./build.sh
       ```
***

10. Download the compressed joining configuration file:
    ```
    cd ../join && wget https://testnet-join.zilliqa.com/configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

11. Unpack the compressed file:
    ```
    tar zxvf configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

12. Edit the _**constants.xml**_ and change the `SCILLA_ROOT` parameter to the full path of the Scilla source directory as found in **step 5**.
***

13. **(Optional)** If you wish to mine with GPUs, please install the your drivers as found above [HERE](#hardware-requirement-for-mao-shan-wang-testnet) first. Then, please edit the _**constants.xml**_ and change the following:
    
    * **For AMD GPUs:** Change `FULL_DATASET_MINE` parameter from `false` to  `true`. Change `OPENCL_GPU_MINE` parameter from `false` to `true`.
    * **For Nvidia GPUs:** Change `FULL_DATASET_MINE` parameter from `false` to  `true`. Change `CUDA_GPU_MINE` parameter from `false` to `true`.
       > **NOTE:** If you wish to run multiple GPUs concurrently, you will need to modify your _**constants.xml**_ file following instructions as found above [HERE](#for-multiple-gpus).
***

14. Enable UPnP **OR** do single port forwarding if you are in NAT environment using **Option 1a** or **Option 1b**. Else, find out your current public IP address using **Option 2** if you already have an exposed public IP address:

    > **NOTE:** If you are using a home router, you are most probably in a NAT environment and can enable UPnP. However, if UPnP does not work, you can do port forwarding instead.

    * **(Option 1a)** Enable UPnP mode on your home router. Please Google your home router setting, an example can be found [HERE](https://routerguide.net/how-to-enable-upnp-for-rt-ac66u/). You can check if you have enabled it UPnP by installing the tool below:
       ```
       sudo apt-get install miniupnpc
       ```
       Then type this in the command line:
       ```
       upnpc -s
       ```
       You will get a message "List of UPNP devices found on the network :" **OR** "No IGD UPnP Device found on the network !". The former means UPnP mode has been enabled successfully, while the latter means UPnP mode has an issue. If you belong to the latter case, please see  Option 2 below.

    * **(Option 1b)** Single port forwarding your local machine IP in the router menu. You can port forward to `30303` for external port (port range), `30303` for internal port (local port) for `BOTH` TCP/UDP protocol in your router menu, an example can be found [HERE](https://www.linksys.com/us/support-article?articleNum=136711). You can then find out your router IP address using your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```

    * **(Option 2)** Find your public IP address directly if you already have a public IP address in your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```
***

15. Join the Zilliqa testnet with the following command:
    ```
    ./launch.sh
    ```
***

16. You will be prompted to key in the following details:
    * `Enter the full path of your zilliqa source code directory:` _[Key in the path you found it step 8]_
    * `Enter your IP address (NAT or *.*.*.*):` _[Key in **NAT** OR your IP address as found in step 14]_
    * `Enter your listening port (default: 30303):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_
***

17. You are now a miner in _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. You can monitor your progress using:
    ```
    tail -f zilliqa-00001-log.txt
    ```
    You will be notified in the logs that you have become a shard/DS node in the network, if you managed to win the PoW process at the start of the DS epoch.
***

18. To check your locally generated public and private key pairs, you can enter this in your command prompt:
    ```
    less mykey.txt
    ```
    The first hex string is your **public key**, and the second hex string is your **private key**.

    > **NOTE:** The key pair is generated locally on your disk. Do remember to keep your private key somewhere safe!

## Discussion channels and error reporting
### Channels
Join our official mining discussion Gitter channel here: https://gitter.im/Zilliqa/Mining

Join the community managed Telegram channel here: https://t.me/zilliqaminer

### Reporting
If you face an issues or errors while joining the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet, please do submit your log.txt files to this Google form here: https://goo.gl/forms/y21CZrSwotvyNoKY2. 

We will help you out whenever possible.

Commit message:

Added build support for cuda/opencl for native, added docker support for cuda mining

Mining.md, after:

# Mining Guide

## General Information
Welcome to Zilliqa testnet-v3, code-named _Mao Shan Wang_. We are inviting all miners to test out the process of joining as a public node on _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. We hope this exercise will familiarise everyone with the workflow and also help to find out potential bugs before the mainnet launch by end January 2019. We also encourage all community developers to join the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet in order to better understand the architecture of the Zilliqa network.

- [Recommended hardware requirements](#hardware-requirement-for-mao-shan-wang-testnet)
- [Steps for mining with docker](#steps-for-mining-with-docker-for-cpu-or-nvidia-gpus-only)
- [Steps for mining natively](#steps-for-mining-natively)

### Testnet Difficulty
The bootstrapped minimum difficulty level is set at `3` for the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. This difficulty level is dynamic and adjusts according to number of nodes that are competing to join the Zilliqa network.

>**NOTE:** Difficulty level is the log2(Difficulty).

### Testnet Epoch Architecture
![Zilliqa Epoch Architecture](https://i.ibb.co/hgY1j3r/Screenshot-2018-11-28-16-29-39.png)

At the start of each DS Epoch, all candidates will run the Proof-of-Work (Ethash algorithm) process for a `300` seconds window in order to compete to join the Zilliqa network.

Then, nodes that fulfilled the `DS_POW_DIFFICULTY` parameter will be able to join as DS nodes. While, nodes that fulfilled the `POW_DIFFICULTY` parameter will join as shard nodes.

There are a total of `100` TX epochs (each ~1 min) within each DS Epoch (~1.5 hrs). The 100th TX epoch is known as the **Vacuous epoch**.
> The illustration above depicts the Zilliqa mainnet epoch architecture. For _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet, we are including 100 TX blocks in each DS epoch instead for testing purposes.

A vacuous epoch handles the coinbase transactions (reward mechanism), upgrade mechanism (as there are no forks in pBFT), and persistent state storage (writing to nodes’ DB instead of just storing in just the memory). During a vacuous epoch, the network does not process any regular transactions.

### Reward Mechanism
In the Zilliqa network, rewards are based on the amount of signatures done by a node during a DS epoch. Signatures that are submitted by both shard and DS nodes are rewarded equally. The rewards are consolidated for a DS epoch and given out during the vacuous epoch.

Say for example, if there are a total of `1,200` nodes in the Zilliqa network and the `COINBASE_REWARD` is set at `10,000,000` ZILs per DS Epoch, the reward distributed per signature will be:

`10,000,000 / (1,200 * 2/3 [Successful signers] * 99 [TX blocks]) = 126.262626262626263 ZILs per signature`

## Hardware requirement for _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet
Currently, mining only works with Ubuntu 16.04 OS. Please follow the steps [HERE](https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/) if you wish to dual boot Windows and Ubuntu 16.04.

We currently support both AMD (with OpenCL) and Nvidia (with CUDA) GPUs.

The recommended requirements for Zilliqa mining nodes are:
* x64 Linux operating system such as Ubuntu 16.04.5
* Intel i5 processor or later
* 8GB DRR3 RAM or higher
* **(Optional)** Any GPU cards with at least 20 Mh/s [e.g 1 x GTX 1060, 3GB dedicated RAM]


### For OpenCL

If you wish to use OpenCL supported GPU for PoW, please run `sudo apt install ocl-icd-opencl-dev` to install the OpenCL developer package.

### For CUDA

If you wish to use CUDA supported GPU for PoW, please download and install CUDA package from [NVIDIA official webpage](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads). You may need to reboot your PC for the installation to take effect. 

### For Multiple GPUs

If you have multiple OpenCL or CUDA GPUs, they can work concurrently. Please edit the `GPU_TO_USE` parameter in the _**constants.xml**_ file located in your "join" folder to select amount of the GPUs that you would wish to use. 

The index start from `0` and you can select one or more multiple GPUs. For example, `0` for 1 GPU, `0, 1, 2` or `0, 2, 4` for 3 GPUs. Do make sure the largest index corresponds to the number of GPUs you have physically in your mining rig.

## Steps for mining with docker (For CPU or Nvidia GPUs only)
1. Install Ubuntu 16.04.5 OS by following instructions here: http://releases.ubuntu.com/xenial/.
***

2. Install Docker CE for Ubuntu by following instructions here: https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/.
***

3. **(Optional)** Install Nvidia CUDA drivers as mentioned above [HERE](#for-cuda). You can skip this step if you are mining with CPU.
***

4. Make a new directory in your Desktop and change directory to it:
    ```
    cd ~/Desktop && mkdir join && cd join
    ```
***

5. Get the docker image in your command prompt:
    ```
    wget https://testnet-join.zilliqa.com/configuration.tar.gz
    tar zxvf configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

6. Enable UPnP **OR** do single port forwarding if you are in NAT environment using **Option 1a** or **Option 1b**. Else, find out your current public IP address using **Option 2** if you already have an exposed public IP address:

    > **NOTE:** If you are using a home router, you are most probably in a NAT environment and can enable UPnP. However, if UPnP does not work, you can do port forwarding instead.

    * **(Option 1a)** Enable UPnP mode on your home router. Please Google your home router setting, an example can be found [HERE](https://routerguide.net/how-to-enable-upnp-for-rt-ac66u/). You can check if you have enabled it UPnP by installing the tool below:
       ```
       sudo apt-get install miniupnpc
       ```
       Then type this in the command line:
       ```
       upnpc -s
       ```
       You will get a message "List of UPNP devices found on the network :" **OR** "No IGD UPnP Device found on the network !". The former means UPnP mode has been enabled successfully, while the latter means UPnP mode has an issue. If you belong to the latter case, please see  Option 2 below.

    * **(Option 1b)** Single port forwarding your local machine IP in the router menu. You can port forward to `30303` for external port (port range), `30303` for internal port (local port) for `BOTH` TCP/UDP protocol in your router menu, an example can be found [HERE](https://www.linksys.com/us/support-article?articleNum=136711). You can then find out your router IP address using your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```

    * **(Option 2)** Find your public IP address directly if you already have a public IP address in your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```
***

7. Run the shell script in your command prompt to launch your docker image.
    * **(Option 1)** For CPU mining:
       ```
       ./launch_docker.sh
       ```
    * **(Option 2)** For Nvidia GPUs mining:
       ```
       ./launch_docker.sh cuda
       ```
      Supported using [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) for Nvidia GPUs.

       > **NOTE:** If you wish to run multiple Nvidia GPUs concurrently, you will need to modify your _**constants.xml**_ file following instructions as found above [HERE](#for-multiple-gpus).

       > **NOTE:** Unfortunately, there is no direct support for this docker build for AMD GPUs. We recommend you to build Zilliqa natively instead of using docker by following instructions below [HERE](#steps-for-mining-natively).
***

8. You will then be prompted to enter some information as shown below:
    * `Assign a name to your container (default: zilliqa):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_

    * `Enter your IP address ('NAT' or *.*.*.*):` _[Key in **NAT** OR your public IP address as found in step 6]_

    * `Enter your listening port (default: 30303):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_

***

9. You are now a miner in _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. You can monitor your progress using:
    ```
    tail -f zilliqa-00001-log.txt
    ``` 
    You will be notified in the logs when you become a shard/DS node in the network, if you managed to win the PoW process at the start of the DS epoch.
***

10. To check your locally generated public and private key pairs, you can enter this in your command prompt:
    ```
    less mykey.txt
    ```
    The first hex string is your **public key**, and the second hex string is your **private key**.

    >**NOTE:** The key pair is generated locally on your disk. Do remember to keep your private key somewhere safe!


## Steps for mining natively

1. Make a new directory for Zilliqa:
    ```
    cd ~/Desktop && mkdir Zilliqa
    ```
***

2. Make a new directory for Scilla:
    ```
    mkdir Scilla
    ```
***

3. Make a new directory for join:
    ```
    mkdir join
    ```
***

4. Clone the Scilla repository and change directory to it:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Zilliqa/Scilla.git Scilla && cd Scilla
    ```
***

5. Find out your current directory path and write it down:
    ```
    pwd
    ```
***

6. Download the Scilla binary dependencies for Ubuntu following instructions [HERE](https://github.com/Zilliqa/scilla/blob/master/INSTALL.md#ubuntu). Then, build the Scilla binary:
    ```
    make clean; make
    ```
***

7. Clone the Zilliqa repository and change directory to it:
    ```
    cd .. && git clone https://github.com/Zilliqa/Zilliqa.git Zilliqa && cd Zilliqa && git checkout 6151a87
    ```
***

8. Find out your current directory path again and write it down:
    ```
    pwd
    ```
***

9. Download the Zilliqa dependencies first, then build Zilliqa for CPU mining **OR** for GPU mining.


    * First, download the dependencies:
       ```
       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install git libboost-system-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libboost-test-dev \
       libssl-dev libleveldb-dev libjsoncpp-dev libsnappy-dev cmake libmicrohttpd-dev \
       libjsonrpccpp-dev build-essential pkg-config libevent-dev libminiupnpc-dev \
       libprotobuf-dev protobuf-compiler libcurl4-openssl-dev
       ```
    * **(Option 1)** Build Zilliqa for CPU mining
       ```
       ./build.sh
       ```
    * **(Option 2)** Build Zilliqa for Nvidia GPU mining with CUDA
       ```
       ./build.sh cuda
       ```
    * **(Option 3)** Build Zilliqa for AMD GPU mining with OpenCL
       ```
       ./build.sh opencl
       ```
***

10. Download the compressed joining configuration file:
    ```
    cd ../join && wget https://testnet-join.zilliqa.com/configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

11. Unpack the compressed file:
    ```
    tar zxvf configuration.tar.gz
    ```
***

12. Edit the _**constants.xml**_ and change the `SCILLA_ROOT` parameter to the full path of the Scilla source directory as found in **step 5**.
***

13. **(Optional)** If you wish to mine with GPUs, please install the your drivers as found above [HERE](#hardware-requirement-for-mao-shan-wang-testnet) first. Then, please edit the _**constants.xml**_ and change the following:
    
    * **For AMD GPUs:** Change `FULL_DATASET_MINE` parameter from `false` to  `true`. Change `OPENCL_GPU_MINE` parameter from `false` to `true`.
    * **For Nvidia GPUs:** Change `FULL_DATASET_MINE` parameter from `false` to  `true`. Change `CUDA_GPU_MINE` parameter from `false` to `true`.
       > **NOTE:** If you wish to run multiple GPUs concurrently, you will need to modify your _**constants.xml**_ file following instructions as found above [HERE](#for-multiple-gpus).
***

14. Enable UPnP **OR** do single port forwarding if you are in NAT environment using **Option 1a** or **Option 1b**. Else, find out your current public IP address using **Option 2** if you already have an exposed public IP address:

    > **NOTE:** If you are using a home router, you are most probably in a NAT environment and can enable UPnP. However, if UPnP does not work, you can do port forwarding instead.

    * **(Option 1a)** Enable UPnP mode on your home router. Please Google your home router setting, an example can be found [HERE](https://routerguide.net/how-to-enable-upnp-for-rt-ac66u/). You can check if you have enabled it UPnP by installing the tool below:
       ```
       sudo apt-get install miniupnpc
       ```
       Then type this in the command line:
       ```
       upnpc -s
       ```
       You will get a message "List of UPNP devices found on the network :" **OR** "No IGD UPnP Device found on the network !". The former means UPnP mode has been enabled successfully, while the latter means UPnP mode has an issue. If you belong to the latter case, please see  Option 2 below.

    * **(Option 1b)** Single port forwarding your local machine IP in the router menu. You can port forward to `30303` for external port (port range), `30303` for internal port (local port) for `BOTH` TCP/UDP protocol in your router menu, an example can be found [HERE](https://www.linksys.com/us/support-article?articleNum=136711). You can then find out your router IP address using your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```

    * **(Option 2)** Find your public IP address directly if you already have a public IP address in your command prompt:
       ```
       curl https://ipinfo.io/ip
       ```
***

15. Join the Zilliqa testnet with the following command:
    ```
    ./launch.sh
    ```
***

16. You will be prompted to key in the following details:
    * `Enter the full path of your zilliqa source code directory:` _[Key in the path you found it step 8]_
    * `Enter your IP address (NAT or *.*.*.*):` _[Key in **NAT** OR your IP address as found in step 14]_
    * `Enter your listening port (default: 30303):` _[Press **Enter** to skip if using default]_
***

17. You are now a miner in _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet. You can monitor your progress using:
    ```
    tail -f zilliqa-00001-log.txt
    ```
    You will be notified in the logs that you have become a shard/DS node in the network, if you managed to win the PoW process at the start of the DS epoch.
***

18. To check your locally generated public and private key pairs, you can enter this in your command prompt:
    ```
    less mykey.txt
    ```
    The first hex string is your **public key**, and the second hex string is your **private key**.

    > **NOTE:** The key pair is generated locally on your disk. Do remember to keep your private key somewhere safe!

## Discussion channels and error reporting
### Channels
Join our official mining discussion Gitter channel here: https://gitter.im/Zilliqa/Mining

Join the community managed Telegram channel here: https://t.me/zilliqaminer

### Reporting
If you face an issues or errors while joining the _Mao Shan Wang_ testnet, please do submit your log.txt files to this Google form here: https://goo.gl/forms/y21CZrSwotvyNoKY2. 

We will help you out whenever possible.
