docs/zilevm/developer-introduction.md, before:

---
id: developer-introduction
title: Developer Introduction
keywords:
  - Developers
  - Dapps
description: ZILEVM for developers
---

---

## Developer Introduction

### Remix IDE

#### Example Smart Contract Deployment

Once you have set up Metamask to have the Zilliqa EVM configuration, then open [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/).

Open the Workspaces folder and right click compile the file called `1_Storage.sol` which will build some artifacts.

!["Compiling a contract"](/assets/img/evm/compile_contract.png)

Next, open `Deploy & Run Transactions`. In `Environment` click the option `Injected Provider - Metamask` which will open a dialog with metamask for users to confirm the connection. This should read `Custom (33101) network` below the environment if your wallet is setup with the Zilliqa EVM connection.

!["Deploying a compiled contract"](/assets/img/evm/deploy_contract.png)

Metamask should open a dialog and ask you to sign the deployment transaction.

On success metamask will open another dialog showing the transactionID of the deployed contract. Navigating to the code for the contract, you can see that it's compiled byte code.

!["Metamask Deploying"](/assets/img/evm/metamask_deploy.png)

You've successfully deployed an EVM contract to Zilliqa EVM network.

Below the deploy button is all of the deployed contracts you own, along with an interactive ABI, so you can call and view the state of the contract.

Commit message:

[docs] added onboarding docs (truffle+hardhat+OZ)

docs/zilevm/developer-introduction.md, after:

---
id: developer-introduction
title: Developer Introduction
keywords:
  - Developers
  - Dapps
description: ZILEVM for developers
---

---

## Developer Introduction

If you are new to Solidity and looking to learn the basics of the language, there are a few guides that can provide a good starting point. These can include:

- The Solidity documentation

This is the official reference guide for Solidity, and it provides detailed information on the language's syntax, features, and built-in libraries. The documentation also includes a number of examples and tutorials that can help you learn the basics of Solidity. Check the [documentation](https://docs.soliditylang.org) for more information.

- The Solidity tutorial on the Ethereum website

This is a comprehensive tutorial that covers the basics of Solidity, as well as more advanced topics such as contract design patterns and security considerations. Check the [documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/tutorials/) for more information.

- The Solidity course on the CryptoZombies website
  This is an interactive, game-like learning platform that teaches Solidity through a series of lessons and exercises. It is a fun and engaging way to learn the basics of Solidity and get started with building your own contracts. Check the [documentation](https://cryptozombies.io/) for more information.
- The Solidity section of the Truffle documentation

If you are using the Truffle development framework, the Truffle documentation includes a number of guides and tutorials specifically focused on Solidity development. Check the [documentation](https://trufflesuite.com/docs/) for more information.

In addition to these guides, there are also many other resources available online, such as blog posts, videos, and forums, that can provide useful information and tips for learning Solidity. You may want to explore these resources as well to find the ones that best suit your learning style and needs.

### Remix IDE

[Remix IDE](/docs/zilevm/onboarding/remix.md)

### Open Zeppelin

[Open Zeppelin](/docs/zilevm/onboarding/open-zeppelin.md.md)

### Truffle

[Truffle](/docs/zilevm/onboarding/truffle.md)

### VSC Plugins

[VSC Plugins](/docs/zilevm/onboarding/vsc-plugins.md.md)
