docs/zilevm/zilevm-introduction.md, before:

---
id: zilevm-introduction
title: ZILEVM Introduction
keywords:
  - EVM
description: Zilliqa EVM
---

---

_Please bear with us as we populate these pages; if you have feedback/requests for documentation, please see the #ethereum-virtual-machine channel on [discord](https://discord.gg/nKznfCaZxy)_

## Getting Started with Zilliqa EVM

### Resources

#### Quick connect guide

Guide on getting starting with ZILEVM

##### Zilliqa Mainnet

EVM is not yet available on Zilliqa Mainnet

##### Developer testnet

| Network Type | Network Name | Network RPC                       | ChainID | Currency Symbol | Block Explorer URL                         |
| ------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------- | ------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Testnet      | EVM Test     | <https://evm-api-dev.zilliqa.com> | 33101   | ZIL             | <https://zilliqa-testnet.tryethernal.com/> |
| Mainnet      |              |                                   |         |                 |                                            |

#### ZILEVM clients

ZILEVM should work with most popular EVM clients and wallets, including [Metamask](https://metamask.io/), [Hardhat](https://hardhat.org) and [Truffle](https://trufflesuite.com/).

#### ZILEVM block explorers

Use:

- [Viewblock](https://viewblock.io/zilliqa?network=testnet)
- [DevEx](https://devex.zilliqa.com/?network=https%3A%2F%2Fdev-api.zilliqa.com)

In particular, DevEx is capable of translating between ethereum and Zilliqa style addresses (use the recycle button next to the address in the account page).

#### ZILEVM testnet faucet

You can use the [testnet faucet](../dev-dapps/dev-tools-faucet.md) to add ZIL to your EVM account; just paste your ethereum address (given by your wallet) into the faucet destination address.

#### ZILEVM RPC

List of ZILEVM RPC tutorials

Commit message:

[docs] change layout of ZILEVM docs. Add hardhat doc

docs/zilevm/zilevm-introduction.md, after:

---
id: zilevm-introduction
title: ZILEVM Introduction
keywords:
  - EVM
description: Zilliqa EVM
---

---

_Please bear with us as we populate these pages; if you have feedback/requests for documentation, please see the #ethereum-virtual-machine channel on [discord](https://discord.gg/nKznfCaZxy)_

## Getting Started with Zilliqa EVM

### Resources

#### Quick connect guide

[Guide on configuring Metamask to ZILEVM](onboarding/onboard-metamask.md)

#### Developer onboarding

[Guides for developing Solidity contracts for ZILEVM](dev-onboarding/developer-onboarding-introduction.md)

##### Zilliqa Mainnet

EVM is not yet available on Zilliqa Mainnet

##### Developer testnet

| Network Type | Network Name | Network RPC                       | ChainID | Currency Symbol | Block Explorer URL                         |
| ------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------- | ------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Testnet      | EVM Test     | <https://evm-api-dev.zilliqa.com> | 33101   | ZIL             | <https://zilliqa-testnet.tryethernal.com/> |
| Mainnet      |              |                                   |         |                 |                                            |

#### ZILEVM block explorers

Use:

- [Viewblock](https://viewblock.io/zilliqa?network=testnet)
- [DevEx](https://devex.zilliqa.com/?network=https%3A%2F%2Fdev-api.zilliqa.com)

In particular, DevEx is capable of translating between ethereum and Zilliqa style addresses (use the recycle button next to the address in the account page).

#### ZILEVM testnet faucet

You can use the [testnet faucet](../dev-dapps/dev-tools-faucet.md) to add ZIL to your EVM account; just paste your ethereum address (given by your wallet) into the faucet destination address.
