contracts/experimental/burn_zrc2/README.md, before:

# Burn ZRC2

This contract aims to allow users to burn ZRC2 tokens:

- The owner can pause the contract for a particular ZRC2 or overall
- The owner can change the number of blocks before the burn is final.
- The owner can assign owership to a new owner.

It is recommended that each project deploy its own burn contract, to keep the contract state size small.

## Burning tokens

With `ZRC2Burn` as the burn contract, and `ZRC2TokenAddress` as any
conformant ZRC2 token, `WalletAddress` as the address that holds the
tokens to burn and `AllowanceAddress` as an address which calls the
ZRC-2 `TransferFrom` mechanism:

To burn ZRC2s:

- Call `ZRC2Burn.UpdateBurnAllowance( ZRC2TokenAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Call `ZRC2TokenAddress.Transfer( ZRC2BurnAddress, token_amount)` to burn the tokens.
- If you change your mind, call `ZRC2Burn.CancelBurn( ZRC2BurnAddress )` within `burncancelblocks` to change your mind. Your tokens will be returned.
- Anyone can then call `ZRC2Burn.FinaliseBurn(token_address, wallet_address)` to finalise the burn.
- Once the tokens are permanently burned, not even the `ZRC2Burn` contract owner can get them back.

To burn ZRC2 tokens via an allowance:

- Call `ZRC2Burn.UpdateBurnAllowance( ZRC2TokenAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Call `ZRC2TokenAddress.IncreaseAllowance( AllowanceAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Have `AllowanceAddress` call `ZRC2TokenAddress.TransferFrom( WalletAddress, ZRC2Burn, token_amount)` to transfer the tokens.
- If `WalletAddress` changes their mind, they can call `ZRC2Burn.CancelBurn( ZRC2BurnAddress )`.
- Anyone can then call `ZRC2Burn.FinaliseBurn(token_address, wallet_address)` to finalise the burn.
- Once the tokens are permanently burned, not even the `ZRC2Burn` contract owner can get them back.

## Inspecting totals

The total number of tokens burned per ZRC2 is stored in `token_total_burned`.

## Safety features

To transfer ownership, the existing owner calls `SetContractOwnershipRecipient` and the recipient calls `AcceptContractOwnership`.

The owner can pause the contract for particular ZRC2 tokens with `Pause(ZRC2TokenAddress)` and `UnPause(ZRC2TokenAddress)`.

The owner can pause and unpause the contract globally with `PauseAll()` and `UnPauseAll()`.

It is not defined if the owner can interact with the contract whilst
it is paused. The owner can reassign ownership and call the pause and
unpause transitions whilst the contract is paused.

## Tests

To run the tests against the isolated server on port 5555

```sh
npm install
npx hardhat test
```

The tests are in `test/BurnTokensAnyZRC2.test.ts` ; edit the parameters at the top of the file to run tests against localdev, testnet or mainnet.

Commit message:

(fix) ZT-13: Allow cancellation when particular ZRC-2s are paused, so that erroneous burns can be retrieved.

contracts/experimental/burn_zrc2/README.md, after:

# Burn ZRC2

This contract aims to allow users to burn ZRC2 tokens:

- The owner can pause the contract for a particular ZRC2 or overall
- The owner can change the number of blocks before the burn is final.
- The owner can assign owership to a new owner.

It is recommended that each project deploy its own burn contract, to keep the contract state size small.

## Burning tokens

With `ZRC2Burn` as the burn contract, and `ZRC2TokenAddress` as any
conformant ZRC2 token, `WalletAddress` as the address that holds the
tokens to burn and `AllowanceAddress` as an address which calls the
ZRC-2 `TransferFrom` mechanism:

To burn ZRC2s:

- Call `ZRC2Burn.UpdateBurnAllowance( ZRC2TokenAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Call `ZRC2TokenAddress.Transfer( ZRC2BurnAddress, token_amount)` to burn the tokens.
- If you change your mind, call `ZRC2Burn.CancelBurn( ZRC2BurnAddress )` within `burncancelblocks` to change your mind. Your tokens will be returned.
- Otherwise the burn becomes irrevocable.
- Anyone can then call `ZRC2Burn.FinaliseBurn(token_address, wallet_address)` to finalise the burn.
- Once the tokens are permanently burned, not even the `ZRC2Burn` contract owner can get them back.

To burn ZRC2 tokens via an allowance:

- Call `ZRC2Burn.UpdateBurnAllowance( ZRC2TokenAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Call `ZRC2TokenAddress.IncreaseAllowance( AllowanceAddress, token_amount)` from the wallet that wishes to burn the tokens.
- Have `AllowanceAddress` call `ZRC2TokenAddress.TransferFrom( WalletAddress, ZRC2Burn, token_amount)` to transfer the tokens.
- If `WalletAddress` changes their mind within `burncancelblocks`, they can call `ZRC2Burn.CancelBurn( ZRC2BurnAddress )` to cancel.
- Otherwise the burn becomes irrevocable.
- Anyone can then call `ZRC2Burn.FinaliseBurn(token_address, wallet_address)` to finalise the burn - this just updates internal data structures.
- Once the tokens are permanently burned, not even the `ZRC2Burn` contract owner can get them back.

## Inspecting totals

The total number of tokens burned per ZRC2 is stored in `token_total_burned`.

## Safety features

To transfer ownership, the existing owner calls
`SetContractOwnershipRecipient` and the recipient calls
`AcceptContractOwnership`.

The owner can pause the contract for particular ZRC2 tokens with
`Pause(ZRC2TokenAddress)` and `UnPause(ZRC2TokenAddress)`.

The owner can pause and unpause the contract globally with
`PauseAll()` and `UnPauseAll()`.

There is a quirk here: `CancelBurn` cannot be called if the contract
is globally paused, but can be called if particular ZRC2s are paused
(even on the paused ZRC2s). This is to allow the owner to pause new
burns whilst facilitating the cancellation of burns in progress, which
would otherwise become irrevocable.

It is not defined if the owner can interact with the
contract whilst it is paused. The owner can reassign ownership and
call the pause and unpause transitions whilst the contract is paused.

## Tests

To run the tests against the isolated server on port 5555

```sh
npm install
npx hardhat test
```

The tests are in `test/BurnTokensAnyZRC2.test.ts` ; edit the parameters at the top of the file to run tests against localdev, testnet or mainnet.
